This is one of my favorite ways to stay
sharp and practice my use of TypeScript.
There's a project fairly popular
one called type challenges.
So on GitHub, its type challenges
is the org and the repo name.
And you can see it's pretty popular,
almost 15,000 stars.
Effectively this is a place
where you can try to solve
interesting problems using
only TypeScripts types.
For example,
we could all probably take a string and
parse CSV values so that we get
an array of things between the commas,
but could you take a string literal type,
and
then DCSV it using no runnable JavaScript,
only the type itself?
That's the kind of thing
that you would do here,
they have them sorted roughly easy,
medium and hard.
But I do these regularly especially as
new language features are introduced.
Sometimes these get a lot easier as you
get more tools that you can make use of.
I will warn you,
the difficulty level here is subjective.
I find some of the medium ones to be
quit hard and some of them were trivial,
so don't get too frustrated if you
feel like you are struggling with
the medium it may be more
appropriately categorized as a hard.
So I picked a couple that
are good places for us to start.
We're gonna solve these collectively
as a class, but I'll keep us moving.
And we can do this right in
the TypeScript playground.
So I've got round 1, 2, and 3.
They roughly correspond to some of
the most approachable things and
then some things that get
a little more interesting.
And then round 3 is quite challenging.
And this represents only up into
the medium level of what this
type challenges repo allows
us to practice with.
So if you want more of this,
if you enjoy what we're about to do,
go to the GitHub repo,
you can actually open pull requests and
I think a bot will come by and try to mark
whether you've gotten it right or not.
So you can see all these
thing merge pull requests or
maybe their issues, yeah,
that's probably it.
All these 5,000 open issues,
these represent people who've
submitted a possible solution.
All right, so with that round 1.
And I'm gonna walk us
through this first one so
that we can see kind of how this works,
how we should think about it.
So our task is to implement a type
where if it evaluates to T,
to a type parameter T,
if the type C, like C for
condition is true, or
F if the condition is false.
So what we could do, I just click
the try button and we ended up here.
So you can think of this up here,
everything above this cut line.
This is setup code,
you don't need to worry about that,
just scroll away from it.
Down here are the test cases and
these are assertions written
purely using type information.
So, We see here, we have the type and
our job is to replace this never
with something more meaningful.
So here we could say, all right,
so if C extends true,
true, otherwise false.
And all the red squiggles are gone,
and it passes.
So all these little challenges you can
do right in the TypeScript playground.
This is true for
the type challenges repo as well,
this is something purely
can do in your browser.
And, these assertions work
as you would hope, right?
So here's, this is the type and then this
is the value you expect to get out of it.
So in this case, because of false,
we hope we're getting 42.
And here cuz of true,
we hope we're getting Apple.
Does that make sense how
this works to everyone?
Okay, so that's a freebie cuz
we have a language feature,
conditional type that kind
of makes that one trivial.
The key here is extend, we're
starting to see that's almost like a,
in the type world it's like a triple
equal sign or something like that.
It's almost like a comparator, right?
If C is, if it is a true,
a thing that is true.
All right, what's the next one?
LengthOfTuple.
So what we want here is to
implement a type starting out as
a never cuz that's sort
of our blank to fill in.
We have a tuple called Fruits and
it contains two things.
The string literal type cherry and
string literal type banana.
In this case it also has the value there,
but
you can see here the type expects
exactly those two strings.
So the question is,
how can we get to a point where we could
say the length of tuple for
this tuple of length 3, is 3?
And for this one,
I'm using not equal, right,
to make sure I have a negative test case.
So the length of a tuple that's
3 long should not equal 2.
Right here I'm testing fruits,
which is this up here that has length 2,
I hope it's 2.
So, Here's what we would do here.
So we have this T and T is a tuple,
we hope it's a tuple.
What we could do here is
an indexed access type.
So we could do something like this.
You could say, all right, T,
it had better be an array, all right?
In fact, we don't even have to do it here.
We could say if T is an array ish thing,
using the same concept
that we use before where we were saying,
is this condition true?
Extends is conceptually like,
equal equal, right?
Then, Look at that.
As soon as I open up
the square brackets here,
I've got prototype things
coming off of array, right?
These are things that you find on an array
that begin with L or have an L in them.
So there's some sense that in this
branch of the type expression I'm
dealing with an array ish thing.
Otherwise we're not an array at all,
so this is sort of where we just wanna
basically give up and say you're misusing
this and we can emit a never hear.
What's happening here?
LengthOfTuple says false does
not satisfy the constraint true.
So this is where [LAUGH]
debugging TypeScript code,
at least this kind of TypeScript
code is a lot more challenging than
JavaScript because all
we see is a failure.
It's sort of instead of thinking of it
like lines of code where you're executing
them one by one and you can see this
statement worked, this statement worked,
this statement worked,
this one failed, right?
Messing with types like this to me feels
like I'm dealing with a balloon and
I squeeze one side and
the other side inflates and
all you get is sort of a snapshot at time
that like, something's not happy in some
place there's no sort of
order of execution here.
So I do know though I should look at the
type of fruits carefully because that's
the only test case here that's failing.
And if I look here,
anyone notice something interesting,
something that's present
in no other test case?
>> As const?
>> As const, okay, that for
sure but what about the tooltip?
And it has to do with as constant.
>> Read only.
>> Read only,
I heard Read only, that is it.
So we can do this and
that'll make the test case happy.
We accept arrays even read only arrays,
a special type of array, great.
So that's how we can create a type that
will give us the length of a tuple.
So if we did, like,
LengthOfTuple, number, number,
boolean Look at that type, it's three.
So we're solving these problems
just using type information,
there's no running JavaScript here.
This is, I know it's a little bit
uncomfortable to think this way.
But this is where you're picking
up those heavier weights and
where you're starting to do things
that are deliberately more abstract,
more challenging than what's in your
day to day TypeScript programming work.
We want that to be easy for you and for
you to be able to think about
what you're trying to accomplish.
>> With a read only array, an array be
treated differently when we're calling
building [INAUDIBLE] method and the type?
>> That's a very good question.
Effectively, why do we need to specialize,
to state that read only is necessary here?
Why wasn't this working before and
why is this working now?
I would argue that question
comes down to which is more
specific versus more general?
Is a writable array a subset
of read only arrays or
is a read only array
a subset of writable arrays?
And in this case a read only
array is the more basic class.
And I can't really tell you why because
the API surface is the same for
both, because read only is not
a concept that exists in JavaScript.
That read only word is
something that compiles away.
All I can tell you is that all regular
arrays can be treated as read only arrays,
but read only arrays can't always
be treated as writeable arrays.
So read only is the more conservative
thing to be passing around, right?
You can pass it to something and
effectively that's something is promising
they will not write to this thing.
Good question.
Okay, let's look at another one.
I find these fun, but maybe I'm weird.
All right, EndsWith.
So, okay, this is a good one for
for the class cuz I think we've
actually seen this one here today.
You may have written it today in your IDE.
So we want a type that evaluates to
true if type A ends with type B.
So if type A end with type B, ends with or
will be like true,
otherwise it'll be false.
So ice cream ends with cream,
ice cream does not end with chocolate.
So these are our test cases
that we hope to make pass.
So somebody help me out.
What can I replace this with such that
we get our test cases to start passing?
>> B extends and
then some sort of string literal with A.
>> Be a little more specific.
>> Well, that's,
I'll leave someone else [INAUDIBLE].
>> I'm just gonna do this.
I think that's what you told me, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, now extends, that's always
used in that conditional type.
That's the only place that word shows up
aside from a heritage clauses, right?
Interfaces extend from other interface,
but this extends, surely we're
gonna have this coming after it and
we can just say true and false here.
We'll shuffle these around as need be.
Let's see.
Michael S and Oscar,
have something that we should try.
Oscar, the syntax is not quite correct.
I don't see any backticks, but that might
be a limitation of the chat as well or
we can't have backtick strings.
So I'm gonna try what I see in
the chat over what I take it to mean.
So we could do this.
Yet chat chat is erasing
the backticks that's fine.
Okay, so interestingly our
second test case is passing but
that could mean that this evaluates
to false for just about everything.
So I'm gonna try to address this problem.
A is not assignable to and then it
gives me a list of primitive types.
And does anyone have a hypothesis for
why are we seeing this error message here?
Of course A is not assignable to these
things it's an any, could be anything.
This is wide open, right,
could be absolutely anything.
But like, It seems that because
we're using A in this place,
Something weird is going on.
So it turns out in this
situation these primitive types
are the things that you can
coerce easily to string.
So we can add a little constraint here,
Like that.
Maybe that'll work.
Let's see, what's going on here?
False does not satisfy
the constraint true.
Let me make sure I read this correctly.
So I think we just have something reversed
here, I think we were supposed to solve A,
right, this is the first
thing A has a B at the end.
Let me reverse these type params
real quick, that could be the thing.
And then we're gonna need to raise,
we'll make these both extend string.
Oops, cannot do my normal hotkeys there.
And there we go.
So now we have an ends with thing,
and again, there's no,
this compiles to this over
here compiles to us tricked,
there's no runnable JavaScript here.
We're solving these
problems using only types.
And in doing so we kind of learn a little
bit about, hey, how does this template
literal type work and the fact that we
can use it any already could have used
a string here, right, the set of
all possible strings, also fine.
All right, so
the idea here is we have A and
B both are tuple types.
As before,
we can always add a constraint to these
to make sure that our tests cases pass.
But we want something that effectively
zips these things together or
concatenates them together.
Shouldn't use zip because
that means interweaving.
Here's a great test case to look at.
We've got 18, 19, 20 and 21,
initially as two separate tuples and
we ended up with one big tuple
type of them smushed together.
So, Let's see if we can solve that.
And I'll help us out first,
Make sure these are arrayish.
Right, cuz that's the only
reasonable input that's,
I would, as long as it does
a type error I don't care
if it's violating the generic constraints
or evaluating to a failing result.
>> Can you just destructure both of them?
>> I like where your head's at.
Talk to me about how I
would write that out.
>> Dot, dot dot A comma, dot, dot, dot B.
>> Thanks, that's it.
That's all we have to do.
So, I'm glad,
have you ever done this before?
>> No.
>> In types,
but your intuition is leading
you in the right place.
Because I think the effort was made
here to try to make it feel like it's
just what you would do for values, right?
Spread operator kind of works.
Cool, well that's the last easy one.